WIP update search docs (#807)
getsentry/sentry-docs: src/collections/_documentation/workflow/search.md

sidebar_order: 3
---

Search is available on several major Sentry views: Issues, Events, and Releases.

{% capture __alert_content -%}

> Discover is Sentry's query builder for aggregating raw event data, and has its own unique syntax not covered here. For more information, see Discover.

Reviewer: Can we highlight that Discover is better, and link to it?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Discover is Sentry's query builder for aggregating raw event data and has its own unique syntax not covered here. For more information, see full Discover documentation.
```

Reviewer 2: Hi @eurica, I'm not sure we can link inside of an alert box.

-   `server:web-8`
-   `example error`

> The first two are standard search tokens, both using reserved keywords. The third is pointing to a custom tag sent by the SDK. The fourth is passed as part of the issue search query (which uses a `CONTAINS` match).

Reviewer: These sentences are tough to parse

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`is:resolved` and `user.username:"Jane Doe"` are standard search tokens because both use reserved keywords. `server:web-8` is pointing to a custom tag sent by the Sentry SDK. `example error` is passed as part of the issue search query (which uses a CONTAINS match).
```

### Advanced

**Exclusion**

By default, search terms are `AND`-ed together; they return the intersection of issues/events that match all search terms.

To change this, you can use the negation operator `!` to _exclude_ a search parameter.

```
is:unresolved !user.email:example@customer.com
```

In the example above, the search query returns all Issues that are unresolved _and_ have not affected the user with the email address `example@customer.com`.

**Wildcards**

Search supports the wildcard operator `*` for values.

```
browser:"Safari 11*"
```

In the example above, the search query will match on `browser` values like `"Safari 11.0.2"`, `"Safari 11.0.3"`, etc.

## Search Properties

> In the examples above, we've highlighted a couple example properites you can search on: `is`, `user`, `server`, `browser`, etc. Below is a canonical list of all available search terms.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the examples above, we've highlighted a couple of example properties you can search on: `is`, `user`, `server`, `browser`, etc. Below is a canonical list of all available search terms.
```

### Issue Properties

Issues are an aggregate of one or more events. Searchable properties include workflow status, assignment, aggregate counts, and age.

> Below is a list of Issue-level tokens reserved and known to Sentry:

Reviewer: I totally get this sentence, but would a human being use it?

Reviewer 2: I think it's okay. :) The line above "Issues are..." helps set the context of "Below is a list..."

  `lastSeen:-2d`

### Events

Events are the underlying event data captured using Sentry SDKs (read: errors and exceptions).

When searching on Event properties within the Issues search, Issue Search will return any Issue that has _one or more events_ matching the supplied event filters.

Below is a list of Event-level tokens reserved and known to Sentry:

`geo.country_code`
`geo.region`
`geo.city`

> : Restrict results to events triggered from a geographic area.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
: Restrict results to events triggered by a geographic area.
```

`release`

: Restrict results to events tagged with the given release.

  Exact match on the version of a release.

`user.id`
`user.email`
`user.username`
`user.ip`

: Restrict results to events affecting the given user.

`event.timestamp`

: Restrict results to events that occurred at the given timestamp. This filter can be passed twice to provide a range.

>   Events occurred on January 2nd 2016:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Events occurred on January 2, 2016:
```

  `event.timestamp:2016-01-02`

  Events between 01:00 and 02:00 (UTC):

  `event.timestamp:>=2016-01-02T01:00:00 event.timestamp:<2016-01-02T02:00:00`

  The following comparative operators are available:

  -   greater than (`>`)
  -   greater than or equal (`>=`)
  -   less than (`<`)
  -   less than or equal (`<=`)
  
`device.arch`
`device.brand`
`device.locale`
`device.model_id`
`device.orientation`
`device.uuid`

: Restrict results to events tagged with a specific device attribute.

`os.build`
`os.kernel_version`

: Restrict results to events tagged with a specific operating system property.

`stack.abs_path`
`stack.filename`
`stack.function`
`stack.module`
`stack.stack_level`

: Restrict results to events with a matching stack property.

### Custom Tags

> Additionally you can use any tag you’ve specified as a token.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Additionally, you can use any tag you’ve specified as a token.
```

## Saving Searches

> You have the ability to save a search by performing the search, clicking the dropdown arrow next to the Current Search, and then "Save Current Search".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can save a search by performing the search, clicking the dropdown arrow next to the Current Search, and then "Save Current Search".
```
